# The Carmel FAQ

We want to keep track of key concepts of Carmel, concepts that can be verbalized and visualized in a simple and concise way. The Carmel Whitepaper is great - maybe even awesome - but we want to take time to build the narrative in an even friendlier and more sharable manner. In a way that can be digested in smaller chunks - much like the Carmel Educational Micro-learning Model. Perhaps we could call this micro-storytelling. Or perhaps just plain old FAQs will do for now. So let's do this in a simple questions & answer format and go through the entire Carmel Story this way. Perfect. So first things first.

## What is Carmel?

**Carmel is a Platform that #HelpsChrisSleepAtNight.**

We're in the business of **Creating Peace of Mind** for millions of people like my friend Chris. Chris is a 40 year old father who has the type of job that can be easily replaced by robots. And the thought that he will lose his job to a machine soon, keeps him up at night, wondering, worrying, thinking about the future of his family. We created Carmel to be a one-of-a-kind Educational Platform that has one purpose and one purpose only - to give my friend Chris the skills he needs to build a future-proof career, so that he can stop worrying about the future - and instead learn to build the future. Research shows that there millions of people like Chris out there and we want to help them all.

Carmel introduces a groundbreaking Educational Model that focuses on teaching hands-on technical skills. The kind of skills Chris will need if he is to build a future-proof career. The Carmel Way is a step forward from the current educational models of traditional classroom-based and video-based learning. Our model is skills-based, decentralized and tokenized, using the concept of Peer Technical Challenges. We introduce the concept of a Carmel Token as a unit of measure for skill, much like a meter is a unit of measure for distance or a gram is a unit of measure for weight. The community creates the challenges and the community also benefits from taking the challenges while earning Experience Points, which serve as Proof of Learning.

## What is Blockchain 3.0?

**Carmel runs on the EOS Blockchain - using Next Generation Blockchain Technology (Blockchain 3.0)**

The past decade has seen two major shift in Blockchain Technology, the first being of course, Bitcoin. This Blockchain 1.0 type of technology pioneered the concept of digital currency. The second generation, Blockchain 2.0, came about about 5 years later, with Ethereum, taking digital currency a step further and introducing smart contracts, a programmable and extensible type of digital currency. The next wave in Blockchain innovation is being pioneered by EOS, a type of Blockchain technology that will add functionality never before possible in the Blockchain world. With EOS, developers can now build entire real-world applications that can be incredibly versatile and that can match and surpass any cloud-based products in terms of performance.

Perhaps, of the most significant improvements to Blockchain 2.0 technology, EOS is known for its proposed performance improvements. With Carmel, we're interested in gathering a lot of data that our community will produce, such as the way people learn to and even they way people fail when trying to learn. This results in a massive amount of operations that we would like to record and analyse. With less than 10 transactions per seconds on Ethereum, that's simply impossible to achieve. EOS is on track to deliver hundreds of thousands of transactions per second, more than enough for our needs. In addition to performance, we're also excited about better account management and the Delegated Proof of Stake consensus, no mining and no transaction fees. Sounds like a dream platform for any Blockchain Startup.
